---
title: 操作系统复习
date: 2017-04-08
categories: OS
tags: OS
---

## 1. Operating System

1. What does a Mordern OS do?

    > Provide abstractions
    Provide Standard Interface
    Mediates Resource Usage
    Consumes Resources


<!-- more -->## 2. Processes and Threads

### 2.1 What is process and threads

Process is an execution stream in the context of a particular process state.
Thread is an execution stream in the context of a thread state.

The key difference: Multiple threads **share** parts of their state.

Allowing read write the same memory, but each thread still have own registers.

Reason:

1. The threads must corrdinate their activities very closely.
2. It is much easier to coordinate activities.

### 2.2 Process state information

1. Register
2. Stack
3. Memory
4. Open file tables
5. Singal management information

### 2.3 Multiprogramming

Multiple processes at **a time**.
Allow system to separate out activites cleanly.

### 2.4 Context switch

Because multiprogamming, there needs to **share** the resource, such as CPU.

Therefore, OS needs the ability to switch from one process to another.
That is **Context Switch**

### 2.5 PCB

The way to implement the *Context Switch* is to **save**  and **restore** the hardware state in PCB (Process Control Block).

#### 2.5.1 PCB depends on hardward

1. Register
2. Porcessor Status Word
3. Memory

    > Some machine needs the Memory Management Unit(**MMU**)

    > But the older PC switch all the process's memory **out to disk**

### 2.6 Event-driven

OS is fundamentally event-driven.

That is to wait for an event to happen, response appropriately to the event, then wait for the next event

### 2.7 Thread Control Block

It is tipically **register**.

Don't need to do anything to the MMU when switch threads.

<!-- more -->### 2.8 Each user process is backed by kernel thread

That is the OS will have a **separate** thread for **each** process.
And perform the OS activities on behalf of the process.

Advantages:

1. Allow the programmer to program the actions associate with that activity as a **single** serial stream of actions and events

2. Programmer does not have to deal with the complexity of interleaving multiple activities on the same thread

### 2.9 Asyncorony
